
git fetch -> Downloads info about the branches and commits from the remote/origin to your local machine
It does not change your current branch or modify the files in your working directory. I just update your copy of whats on the remote.
updates all remote tracking branches, so you can see any new branches added on the remote, without affecting your working branch.
does not merge
git pull -> it doesn't get the new branches on remote it only affects the branch you’re on, fetching and merging changes for that branch specifically
It can cause merge conflicts.
git commit -a only adds changes to the commit in tracked files it knows about, not untracked files. you need to add them first

Merge Main
 git fetch origin
 git merge origin/main
 git push
    you don't need git commit because when git merges it. It does its own commit.
    you would need a git commit if there are conflicts that needed to be resolved.

Git commands
     git add <file name> = to add a new file
     intellij usually asks if you want to add to when you make the new file

    git commit -a commits all tracked files. if you do -am"message" the m is the commit message and won't take you to the vim messages
    you can't switch branches "git checkout branchName" unless the branch is clean i.e. it has been committed

    git commit -a does not add new files. it just adds the changes to the current files

    Branch commands
    git branch = list branches
    git branch <name> = creates a new branch
    add new branch git branch -b <name> this one creates a new branch and checks out, so it would be like
            git branch <name>
            git checkout <name>
    switching branches it just git checkout <name>

    renaming branches
        git branch -m <currentName> <newName>
        or if on that branch
        git branch -m <newName>

    Delete Branch
        git branch -d <name>
        if you have unmerged commits you will get an error, you will have to use the -D for force the delete
        you also cannot delete the branch you are on. you have to switch branches to do that

    File management
        Untracked files
            not been added (like with git add <fileName>, or with git commit) those files will stay in the file directory
            no matter what branch you are on.
        Staged files
            have been added via the git add <name> or . these are ready for commit.
            if you switch branches with staged files, they remain staged in the new branch because they don't belong to any specific branch yet.
        Committed files
            belong to the branch where the git commit command was run. you won't see them on the other branches

    Conflicts
        git log --oneline will give you a list of commits the first/top one is the latest commit

    Fast-forward merge definition
        The reference for main is moved forward to the last commit on the branch you are merging in.
        If there is no conflicting activity

    Target
        refers to the branch you want to change by merging changes into it. It's the target of the merge
    Source
        refers to the source of the changes, it is the source of the merge, usually for us it is not the main.
    Remote
        where the project is hosted
    gitHub
        fork a repo  = means creating a copy of the repo in your own account. where you can experiment and make changes that won't
        affect the original
        clone a repo is making a copy of it on your own machine
        A remote will have a url, you can use it to make a local copy from
                first find/make a directory on your machine, make sure your in that directory then type
            git clone <copied-url-from-gitHub>
            this will automatically pull down the code and set up the main branch
            then cd into the home directory, you should see what branch you are on then. It should be main.
            by default the server/place you cloned from is named origin

        git remote -v will give you the url for the remote you are cloned into. this will be what you're pushing into

        When you get the message that the "remote contains work you don't have locally". It means that branch your trying to
        push to has changes on it that you don't have, and you need to pull those changes to your local machine

        push a branch to remote
        git push -u origin <branch name>
        fetch a branch from remote/origin
            git fetch origin <branchName>

    in gitHub when it deletes the branch. It only deletes the branch in the remote not the local

   Rebase
    git rebase main
        any changes in main will be pulled into your branch, then my commits will be replayed/put after the last commit from main

    Merging
        git merge main
            this takes the changes from the main branch (from the time you branched off of it) to you most current commit
            it compares them to make sure there are no conflicts and then merges them together. this will create a new commit
            called a merge commit. it should be the newest commit on your branch

     local tracking branches
        are usually origin/<branchName> and are set up to track changes on remote. When you do git fetch it downloads all the changes
        from the remote to your local repo. those are not merged into your branches and repo yet. So you have to go git merge origin/main
        to merge in the changes that you received. if you just do git merge main, it will just merge the current main, which doesn't
        have the new stuff in it yet.

        if you do git pull on the branch your on it will git fetch origin and then git merge origin/<branchName>

    git reset HEAD~1
        removes the commit and unstages the changes, It returns the changes to your working directory



